---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cudo_vm Resource - terraform-provider-cudo"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  VM resource
---

# cudo_vm (Resource)

VM resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "cudo_storage_disk" "my-storage-disk" {
  data_center_id = "gb-bournemouth-1"
  id             = "storage-disk-1"
  size_gib       = 100
}

# pick a specific data center and machine type
resource "cudo_vm" "my-vm" {
  depends_on     = [cudo_storage_disk.my-storage-disk]
  id             = "instance-1"
  machine_type   = "intel-broadwell"
  data_center_id = "gb-bournemouth-1"
  memory_gib     = 2
  vcpus          = 1
  boot_disk = {
    image_id = "debian-12"
    size_gib = 10
  }
  storage_disks = [
    {
      disk_id = "storage-disk-1"
    }
  ]
  ssh_key_source = "project"
  start_script   = <<EOF
                     touch /multiline-script.txt
                     echo  $PWD > /current-dir.txt
                     EOF
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `boot_disk` (Attributes) Specification for boot disk (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--boot_disk))
- `id` (String) ID for VM within project

### Optional

- `commitment_months` (Number) The minimum length of time to commit to the VM instance. It cannot be deleted before the commitment end date.
- `cpu_model` (String) The model of the CPU.
- `data_center_id` (String) The id of the datacenter where the VM instance is located.
- `gpu_model` (String) The model of the GPU.
- `gpus` (Number) Number of GPUs
- `machine_type` (String) VM machine type
- `memory_gib` (Number) Amount of memory in GiB
- `metadata` (Map of String) Metadata values to associate with the VM instance
- `networks` (Attributes List) Network adapters for private networks (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--networks))
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Root password for linux, or Admin password for windows
- `project_id` (String) The project the VM instance is in.
- `security_group_ids` (Set of String) Security groups to assign to the VM when using public networking
- `ssh_key_source` (String) Which SSH keys to add to the VM: project (default), user or custom
- `ssh_keys` (List of String) List of SSH keys to add to the VM, ssh_key_source must be set to custom
- `start_script` (String) A script to run when VM boots
- `storage_disks` (Attributes Set) Specification for storage disks (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--storage_disks))
- `vcpus` (Number) Number of VCPUs

### Read-Only

- `external_ip_address` (String) The external IP address of the VM instance.
- `internal_ip_address` (String) The internal IP address of the VM instance.
- `renewable_energy` (Boolean) Whether the VM instance is powered by renewable energy

<a id="nestedatt--boot_disk"></a>
### Nested Schema for `boot_disk`

Required:

- `image_id` (String) ID of OS image on boot disk

Optional:

- `size_gib` (Number) Size of boot disk in Gib


<a id="nestedatt--networks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `networks`

Required:

- `network_id` (String) ID of private network to attach the NIC to

Optional:

- `assign_public_ip` (Boolean) Assign a public IP to the NIC
- `security_group_ids` (Set of String) Security groups to assign to the NIC

Read-Only:

- `external_ip_address` (String) The external IP address of the NIC.
- `internal_ip_address` (String) The internal IP address of the NIC.


<a id="nestedatt--storage_disks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `storage_disks`

Required:

- `disk_id` (String) ID of storage disk to attach to vm
